All right, so Caleb did this before,
and then Wes asked me,
how would we do a Game Over screen, right?
Let's actually take some
things that we learned before,
we learned about collision detection,
right?
We know about broadcasting, and
we learned about showing and hiding.
Let us pull together these
three ideas into having
a Game Over screen that shows and
hides as we need it.
All right, so
let's go back over to the one that I was
making, you probably still have it open.
So we need some amount of
collision detection here.
We should put that snake back
where it belongs when it starts.
And so, we'll say at the very beginning,
We will go where we're supposed to go,
and we'll say in our loop here,
If, Touching our good friend Nano,
We wanna stop all, but we wanna
show that Game Over screen, right?
So what we do is we add
an additional sprite.
I'm gonna grab just
a text tool in this case.
GAME OVER.
Boy, what is the correct,
let's do Pixel, I like Pixel, GAME OVER.
I think that that Game Over
is just a bit too subtle.
I think it needs to be, That feels better.
Okay, maybe I got carried away.
>> Make it red, too.
>> Red?
>> I think you should change
the style a little bit cuz it's
not really an 8-bit game, so
I think it should be more of a, just-
>> Here are your choices,
you got Handwriting, Marker, Curly, Pixel.
>> I think it should be Marker.
>> Marker?
>> And that'd fit-
>> Okay, I actually like, yeah, I'm here.
>> Yeah, it fits the style the best.
>> I'm here for it.
All right, cool,
let's just put in the middle, 0, 0.
And so, when the game starts,
it's not game over, so
what should we do to the game
over sprite when the game starts?
>> Hide it.
>> Show it when it receives
the message that it's time to show it.
>> Hide it, and so how do we handle that?
How does it receive the message?
>> Somebody broadcasts it.
>> Okay, I think.
>> The snake or Nano.
>> Looks like the snake is
the one checking right now.
So I agree, so
let's go over into our broadcast.
Whenever it's touching Nano.
>> Is there a way to make it stop hiding?
Because if there is, then you can
make it when Nano touches a snake,
it stops hiding.
>> Yep,
we can do when Nano touches the snake,
we happen to have the logic in
the snake when it's touching Nano,
it's kinda same thing either way,
doesn't really matter.
>> After broadcasting game over,
put a wait 0.00001 seconds.
Because if you don't,
then they'll both happen at the same time,
and the game over won't show up.
I've done that with lots of different
game over, it doesn't work.
>> So we do a bunch of thing,
we do a bunch of cleanup,
we could choose to hide the sprites.
Let's start by getting
the initial part in place.
So when I receive game over,
that is gonna be when we show.
Because yeah,
those events happen on an event loop and
one could happen before the other.
The end of the game could happen
before the message gets received.
The other thing we could do,
we can have it wait,
we'll talk about two ways to handle this.
Let's see the problem first so
everyone sees it, and
then we'll talk about
two ways to handle it.
So when I receive the game over,
that will be when we show this one.
Right, now, Caleb's hypothesis is,
when broadcasting that message, for those
of us who like the JavaScript programming
language, will go to an event loop.
But the stopping of the game will happen
before the broadcasting of the message.
Let's verify that so
everyone can see what he's talking about.
That one actually does happen.
>> It did?
>> Yeah.
>> All right, it worked.
>> But
I'm surprised that it worked as you are.
So let's talk about if it doesn't work,
cuz sometimes it's
just luck [LAUGH] when dealing with
asynchrony, sometimes there's luck.
So there's two ways to handle this.
One would be to just wait, right?
So wait before stopping the game.
So broadcast a message,
give it some amount of time.
So it would be going into the snake and
saying, broadcast game over, but
give the game a second to figure it out.
So we could say, wait one second,
but that feels a little rough.
So we'll say 0.01,
something like that, well, whatever,
0.1 is fine, just make our point.
And so this will make sure that
the message gets the chance to go through,
obviously same effect.
The other way that I might
consider doing it is,
why is the snake stopping the game when
we're broadcasting the game over message?
I'd rather have game over stop the game,
cuz then I don't have to
worry about this at all.
So I just say broadcast the message,
and let game over stop everything, and
then I don't have to worry about it.
>> Yeah, finishes it off.
>> Boom, and
now we've got a Game Over screen, right?
The other thing you could do is, and
I'll kind of leave this as an exercise for
you, and I'll give you a little bit
of time to play around with it.
Is you could theoretically
have the green flag
just broadcast a game start
that then hides everything.
And then you can have a thing with,
game over, press S to continue, or
press a key to continue.
And then you could have the ability
to play the game over and over and
over again, and
you could break that logic out.